Let's summarize
what we have learned about statistical testing
through the z-test. We take a sample from a population
such as the blood pressure of one single person.
In the so-called null hypothesis
we assume that the sample was taken from
a population with a certain mean and
a certain standard deviation. By transforming
our variable X to Z,
the standard normal distribution, recall the formula, 
we can calculate how probable it would be
on repeated samplings to get
a measurement that deviates this much
or even more from the population mean.
This probability
is called the p-value and if the p-value is very low,
we may choose to reject the null hypothesis,
and assume that our sample belongs to a different distribution - 
the alternative distribution. But what if our sample were
a randomly selected group of people
instead of one person? We have measured their
blood pressure and calculated the mean blood pressure of the group.
Recall from the central limit theorem
that collecting the means from repeated samplings
will yield a sampling distribution.
The mean of the sampling distribution
is going to be similar to the population mean
but the standard deviation of the sampling distribution
will be smaller than the population standard deviation.
Furthermore the standard deviation of 
the sampling distribution will depend
on the sample size - also called N. 
In fact you can calculate
the standard deviation of the sampling distribution
by taking the standard deviation
of the population and dividing
by the square root of N (the sample size).
Look at
how this effects our Z test formula.
Our variable
is now the sample mean. We denote this x-bar (x̄). 
To transform
x-bar to Z, the first step
is to subtract with the population mean.
We denote this mu (μ). Secondly
we divide by the standard deviation
of the sampling distribution and we now
know that this is the standard deviation
of the population. We denote this sigma (σ).
Divided by the square root of N.
We have now
transformed our measurement to Z.
This allows us again to lookup
how common it would be on repeated samplings
to get the mean differing this much
or even more from the population mean. You have now seen the difference
between a Z-test for a single observation
and a Z-test for a sample mean.
By looking at the formula for the Z test
you will realize that the Z-test is
only applicable when both
the mean and the standard deviation
of the population are known.