In this
video I will talk about the t-test. We will compare the
t-test and z-test to practice how to
understand and choose between statistical tests.
The t-test was
developed and published in 1908
by William Gosset, a statistician
and chemist by the
Guinness brewery in Dublin. Many breweries over the world such as
Guinness or Carlsberg
are famous contributors of scientific
advances, in this case statistics.
The t-test is sometimes referred to
as the student's t-tests. This is because
Guinness wouldn't allow Gosset to publish his
work under his own name so he used
"Student" as a pseudonym. Gosset had to solve a problem
related to inferring from small sample sizes.
And the context was process control sampling in the brewery.
When the standard deviation
of the population is known you can use
the z-test.
Remember the formula.
Sometimes the standard deviation of the population is
unknown so you will have to infer
the population standard deviation from the sample standard deviation
this we denote as S.
And here you can see in the t-test formula.
The result
from the t-test formula T is not
normally distributed. It follows the broader
T distribution. Our
estimate of the population standard deviation
grows better as sample sizes grow larger.
So there is one T distribution
for each sample size,
or more generally for each
degree of freedom. At sample sizes larger
than 300, the T distribution will be very similar to a Z distribution.
Let's work through the formulas
of some statistical tests, so-called
test functions. I want you to pay attention to
the similarities. The test functions
all express some difference, replacing
any measurement unit such as centimeter
or kilogram with the variability
as the new unit.
The goal is to find out if a difference is
large or negligible given the variability.
Whenever you encounter
the test function of a statistical test
explore it carefully. What
needs to be known for the test to be applicable?
Greek letter abbreviations
such as mu (μ), sigma (σ),
indicate that the
population parameters, mean
and standard deviation needs to be known.
On the other hand latin letter abbreviations
such as: X-dash (x̄) or
S indicate that you need to use
the mean and standard deviation of the sample.
Look at the numerator.
Here some difference is
expressed, like the difference between a sample
and the mean of a null hypothesis.
The question you are asking is
shown in the numerator.
Look at the denominator. Here you will find
an expression of the variability.
in the division your measurement unit such as kilogram
or centimeter will be cancelled out.
Each time you take a new sample, you expect
to get a new value from your test function.
The only thing we know is how
the test function value will be distributed
over repeated samplings.
Measuring areas under the distribution curves
allows us to report the p-value,
how common your sample would be given that the null hypothesis
is true.
Now you're equipped with a few tricks how to explore and understand
test functions.