In this video
you will get some R code
useful for visualizing hypothesis tests,
and also to think about one-tailed and two-tailed tests,
type 1 and type 2 errors and statistical power.
Imagine that
the red line here is a
sampling distribution of the so-called
null hypothesis and
the blue line that I have drawn here
is the sampling distribution
for the alternative hypothesis. Imagine that
we draw many samples from
the null hypothesis population.
Very often the mean will
end up somewhere here, close to 80,
but it's possible also to get a mean
of 100, or even 120 although not so
often. Here I have drawn a vertical line
with abline() verticle,
at the 95th percentile
of the red distribution. It means that
this line is drawn where
5 percent of the
population is to the right of the
line. This would be
the cutoff for a one-tailed
test. So if we get a value
higher than this line
we are going to reject
the null hypothesis and we will assume
at the alternative hypothesis,
the blue distribution, is actually the correct one.
It means that sometimes
we will make an error, the so-called type 1 error, or alfa error.
In five percent of the cases
we will get a mean higher than this value,
just by chance. Let's look at
what it would look like to do a
two-tailed test. You see the same distributions again
the red belongs to the null hypothesis
the blue could be a alternative hypothesis
distribution. Now I have drawn
new ablines, two of them.
Notice how I have changed
so I don't take the 95th percentile
instead I leave out 2,5 percent to the left and 2.5 percent to the right, so together
this area plus this area is 5 percent of all the samplings I'm likely to draw 
from the null hypothesis distribution.
Here is some code for you
that colors the so-called rejection
area red so whenever you
draw a sample and the mean is lower than 60 and
higher than 100 then you will reject
the null hypothesis in a two-sided test.
So, we have talked about that in five percent of the cases
where your sample is actually drawn from that null hypothesis population
we will still reject the null hypothesis 
and commit a type 1 error but
let's imagine for a moment that the
alternative hypothesis
is the true one.
So let's imagine that
the blue distribution here is actually the true
and you can see that
many times we will draw a sample with
a high mean and we are going to reject
the red null hypothesis, but there is
this shaded area here, the so-called beta error
or type two error. Those are samplings
that actually come from the alternative hypothesis
distribution but they happen to be close
to the null hypothesis and therefore
we will not reject the false
null hypothesis.
So here is some code for shading
the area one minus beta.
As you can see this
area are all of the samplings
from the alternative hypothesis
that happen to be true in this case, that
would lead to a rejection of the false null hypothesis.
This is also called the statistical
power of the test.