When a population is known to follow the normal distribution
you just need to know the mean
and the standard deviation and now
you can draw a graph showing the whole population.
Remember that there are many
normal distributions, all with a specific mean
and a specific standard deviation. How
tall are Swedish men? On average
182 centimeters, with the standard deviation
of seven centimetres. What is the world population
blood pressure? On average ninety,
with a standard deviation of 10.
You can often see
this kind of annotation. Let's say
we denote blood pressure with X. It's normally distributed
therefore the tilde (~) and N. And between parentheses
we write 90 for the mean and
10 for the standard deviation. 
Here is a graph of the world population
and their blood pressures. Imagine that
each person occupies an
equal space underneath this curve, so
all of you with blood pressure ninety
will be in the middle of this graph. How can we find
the number of persons at each value
for the blood pressure? Well, we can't
keep a table for each possible normal distribution.
Instead there is one table
for the so-called standard normal distribution
also called Z.
Z is normally distributed. It has
a mean of zero and a standard deviation
of one. The area
under the Z curve equals one for a very good reason:
it makes it easy to calculate probabilities.
So the probability that
I will pick a person that has any blood pressure
will be one. What
is the probability that I would pick a person
with a blood pressure 90 or higher?
Since 90 divides
the curve in two halves, the probability will be
50 percent. The
area under half of this curve equals 0.5.
It's easy to transform any
normally distributed variable to
the standard normal distribution as long as you know
the mean and the standard deviation of your variable. Start by subtracting
the mean from each measurement.
So, I'm 190 centimetres tall
subtract 182 and I we get the value
8 centimeters. In the next step,
divide each value with the standard deviation
so 8 centimeters divided by 7 centimeters
will be approximately 1.14.
Notice how the unit centimeter
disappears in this operation.
So now
we have dropped the unit for the measurement
and instead we describe the
deviation from the mean using
standard deviation as the unit.
This is excellent, it allows us to take a sample
and then describe how much it deviates
from a hypothesized population,
the so-called null hypothesis.
By looking up the area under the Z curve
from your measurement and then further away from the mean
you will be able to tell how
common it would be to to take such a sample
or a more extreme sample. This
area is also referred to as the p-value.
If the sample deviates a lot from the mean
we are going to reject the null hypothesis
and state that this sample probably belongs
to some other distribution with a different mean.
This is called the alternative hypothesis.
A common choice is to reject
the null hypotheses if the p-value
is lower than 0.05.
This means that if you would make 100
samplings and those samplings are really from
the null hypothesis population
during your 100 samplings you will probably
on average reject your null hypothesis
five times although
the null hypothesis was true.
Using the Z distribution to decide whether a sample belongs
to a population or not is actually
a hypothesis test and as such
it's called the Z test.
What conditions need to be fulfilled
for you to use a Z test? 
Well, the test applies to
data on interval or ratio scale.
The population should follow the normal distribution
and you need to know the population mean
and standard deviation.
Only then you can use the formula to transform
your distribution to the Z distribution.
Secondly, you need to look at the null hypothesis of the Z test
and see if it matches the question you want to ask.
The null hypothesis asks whether
a sample belongs to
a population with a certain mean. So if your question
is about a mean, this might be a good choice.
If your question is about the median,
the variation or some other aspect
then you may have to go to a different test.
We talked about how to transform a normally distributed variable
to the Z variable. 
We talked about how and when this can be used
for hypothesis testing. 